There are multiple things hurting me the past 3 months. Understandably, they are all jumbled up and mixed up together, and it is very difficult for both me and you to see what happened clearly. I have done a lot of thinking, and you will not reply to this, but I do hope you read it. The things I have said thus far, and you have read, only scratched the surface, as I hoped to have a proper conversation with you, but now that you have said that you will not reply, I will just lay out everything else I have been feeling.


1. The relationship
2. The overdose
3. The friendship, promises, and abandonment


These are the three things that are interlinked with one another, yet all hurt me in a different way. Let me address them one at a time.


The relationship:


First off, it hurts to see you say that we weren’t dating. For literally all intents and purposes, we were dating. That is a fact. Casual dating, maybe. Serious dating, maybe. Officially, unofficially, it doesn’t matter. We were dating. We kissed, went on dates, vacations, and all sorts of other things only couples would do. The fact that you saw it as that we weren’t dating hurts a lot, and it feels that our entire time and experience will be swept under the rug. To you 10 years down the road, I will be just some guy, not your third boyfriend, not anything, but for me, you will always be my first love, my first kiss, my first girlfriend.


Secondly, yes, we have been having many conflicts, many arguments. You might be right, that there is something fundamentally different between us. But I would like to disagree. The argument right before you ordered the roses, we came up with a new way to deal with potential future conflicts. And we didn’t even get to try that way.


I feel that there are still so many avenues to resolve and prevent future conflicts, such as seeing couples therapy, and whatnot, but we didn’t even get to try. Another reason which could have resulted in us having so many arguments, is that you have your mental block, and I have my anxiety, and borderline personality disorder. And I believe that if you worked on your mental block, while I worked on my issues, conflicts between us in general would’ve significantly gone down, that we can in fact be together. Sadly, you were scared to see a professional until after the events of february, and I myself had not made enough progress with my own issues. Thus, we were not able to explore that avenue, that potential route our relationship could have gone down.
Even now, I believe that without your mental block, without my illnesses, and maybe with more maturity from the both of us, we could work out as a couple.








Thirdly, you made the decision to break up on your own. I told you I will support you no matter what. Yet, after Valentine’s day, you spiraled on your own, and ghosted me, instead of telling me what is wrong, and working things out together. I said I will support you. I said I will try and understand your mental block. I wish you had told me what you were going through, and I wish we could have talked it through together, instead of you making the decision and springing the entire thing on me after no contact.


Fourthly, your point A. I don’t blame you for being selfish that day at the pool. I knew the consequences, and I accepted it. There was this time after we went to Vivo, where we sat down and talked about the future. I said there are 3 outs. We stop immediately, we stop before you leave, we don’t stop. The second option is low risk, low reward, the third option was high risk, high reward. We both choose the third option, wanting the high reward. I understood the risk, and I thought you did too. But only after did your point A happen, did you realise the risk and consequences. And you did not deal with the consequences, nor accept your part to play in the risk. After February, I felt as though I am left to deal with all the burden and consequences and blame, and everything simply felt completely unfair to me.


Lastly, when your first boyfriend broke up with you, he broke up with you in person. When you and boris broke up, both of you deliberated and talked and took over a week to properly break up. And even then, you two called, had a long conversation, before you broke up, at which point you immediately called me asking for support. Those were how your first two break-ups went. Break-ups are always ugly, but they can be carried out decently.


You texted me out of the blue, and like you said, I understandably got confused. What you didn’t say was understandable, was my anger. But my anger is substantiated and understandable too. It is the way I reacted that was immature, and I apologize for that. But I feel as though I was not given a proper break-up, a way to properly grief and get closure. You could’ve broken up with me in person, in May when you came back. That is the most humane way to break up with someone. You could’ve video called me, or even simply called me and have a conversation with me like you did with Boris. That would be decent too. You could have even just texted, and had a text conversation with me. I was angry, and responded poorly yes, so you stopped replying. Fine. I was significantly calmer the day after, and I tried to have a conversation, and you denied me that. The way the break-up happened, was completely cruel and I was not given basic human decency. 


You are my first love. You were my first girlfriend. And that was my first break up. And I didn’t even get to have a conversation.


Even now, I still love you, and I have more to say in the conclusion, but first, let me lay out all the pain I have gone through, and I hope you will try and understand it, maybe not now, but maybe in the future, when you are working through your issues.






The overdose: 


I shouldn’t have overdosed. Plain and simple. That is my fault. But may I please explain the timeline, including both facts, and my POV?


You didn’t talk to me for days after Valentine’s and fifteeth. You suddenly text me saying you want to take a break. I got upset, and you disengaged. Fight or flight, and you flew. I understand and accept that. Again, I am sorry for getting upset. 


But the day after, I have calmed down, and I tried to talk to you calmly. Again, this was 12 hours later. You did not re-engage. Another 12 hours later, I tried to talk to you again. You did not reply once again. An hour later, I called you twice, both times going through. The third and fourth time I called, it did not go through. I messaged on Whatsapp, a single tick. You turned your phone off, or airplane mode, 24 hours after my anger. 24 hours. Not immediately like you implied in your message. A whole day after. 


I contacted my friends. I contacted your friends. I contacted everyone I knew, to stop myself from spiraling. Our agreement may be to contact my friends only. That doesn’t matter. The intent of the agreement, was to stop me from spiraling and overdosing and hurting myself. That’s the intent, right? And so, I tried to get the intended outcome of our agreement, and I asked your cousin, even Cooper to try and get a hold of you. 


After that, I messaged you more. I overdosed, and videoed myself while overdosing, and then I fell asleep. This is the timeline, purely fact and simple.


20th: Break-up, and anger. You stopped replying, understandably
21st morning: No longer angry, tried to reach out, no reply
21st night: Starting to lose control, reached out again. No reply
22nd early morning: Called twice, you airplane mode, I contacted whomever, I overdosed.


The airplane mode, was tens of hours AFTER I said the hurtful accusations towards you, which again, I am sorry for, nor did I believe said accusations.


I was angry when you wanted to break up. I said hurtful things, and I am sorry. So so sorry for that. I have never meant any of the words I said. I never believed that you were using me. I didn’t mean nor believe the words I said, but it hurt you and I shouldn’t have said it. I am so goddamn sorry. Despite how Anastasia made me feel, I have since realised that my emotions are valid. Both yours and mine are. But not our actions, and I hope you will forgive mine. I was lying to try and love you less, but I just ended up hurting both of us. I wanted to apologize the day after, but I accidentally overdosed, never got the chance to. I wish I can make it up to you. I know I have hurt you. I know you have hurt me too. But right now, all I can feel is that I miss you, which just confirms that I love you. I’m not angry, i’m not hateful, I still love and care for you all the same




The day after, I still wanted to talk things out. And by nighttime, you still had not replied, and I started spiraling. I was not at the point of hurting myself, or even thinking of taking xanax yet, but after I called you, and you turned off your phone or went on airplane mode, that was the breaking point. I completely spiraled after that, leading to me contacting everyone else, and resulting in the overdose. I took the video, and sent it, because I was hurting so much. And a part of me just needed you to understand how much I was hurting. I need you to know. Not because I wanted to threaten suicide, to make you feel guilty, I just need my pain to be validated. The video took a while to send, it was a few hundred MBs, and so while it was sending, I realised I took too much, and was worried I might die. That was why I sent you my “last words”. And that may be why you believe that I was attempting suicide. 


Since the 21st, all I wanted was to talk to you. That’s all. I just wanted to talk to you. Even now, I just wanted to talk to you. That was my only request. Rewatch the video again if you need to. All I ever mentioned, was “I just want to talk to you, please”. If I died, how would I be able to talk to you? I guess you don’t believe me, but I never wanted to die, not then. I feel as though of all the people in the world, you would know me best. And you know that I don’t joke about dying. When I do want to commit suicide, and I have in the past, I straight up say it. I did say it to you before. That I am at a 9 or a 10 or whatever. That I want to die. Watch the video again. I did not mention dying a single time. 




Just days ago before the overdose, I texted you emotionally, saying I miss you, because I just watched All Of Us Are Dead on Netflix, where there was a scene where a person committed suicide, and the camera panned to his phone with his wife messaging him talking about plans for dinner. That scene struck me, and I imagined the wife to be you, and I did not want you to be in that position. You made me promise when we watched A Silent Voice to not commit suicide. If you read from the earliest conversations I’ve had with Anastasia, I mentioned that sometimes I wish I am able to disappear from your life, and die, so that you would not be affected by my death. At IMH, I met people who were genuinely suicidal, and they have been stuck in the ward for over 3 weeks. I got released after 4 days, because I was not suicidal. I have never wanted to die, and hurt you with my death. If I do die, I never did want you to know, nor would it ever be your fault. But yet, you believe that I blamed you, and that I was attempting suicide that night, when it was just an accidental overdose.


I am not trying to invalidate you. I know you felt panicked and stressed, and wanted to do whatever you could to stop me from dying, even though I am halfway across the world. But I do not understand why you feel hurt. I really, really don’t. You mentioned that you didn’t want to text me while I was in IMH, because you were hurt, but why were you hurt? And this hurt you were referring to was from after over 24 hours of my initial anger, and hours before our last conversation, where I asked you why are you leaving me. If it is from the anger from 24 hours ago, I understand, but if it is from anything else, I really don’t. I am really sorry, I have tried for the past 3 months to reason out why, but I just don’t understand.


Either way, you felt hurt by something, but you still replied me. And then I asked you if you’re leaving, and why. You said that you still cared at this point, and could forgive me if I explained myself, it was possible to still be friends, but only in the future. But read our conversation again. You said forever at that point. I was not given a chance to explain at that point. Even at that moment, I was trying to talk to you, to have a conversation, to explain. I called, and you wouldn’t pick up. You accused me of blaming you for my mental illness, which is simply not true. I tried to explain that, I tried to explain the overdose, I tried to have a conversation with you. I tried to talk. You wouldn’t. You literally said, “i do not want to talk”. You said that I do not understand what you went through that night you received the video. I don’t. But you never did explain to me, so that I could understand. You never wanted to talk. How am I supposed to understand, if you don’t talk to me? You are upset that I am ungrateful you saved my life, and that I said hurtful things about you. But what did I say? The hurtful thing I said when I was in IMH, is that you broke my heart, and are doing nothing to fix it. And I said it, because, despite my attempts to talk, to understand, to conversate, you refuse to. 


You want me to be grateful, which I am. You were willing to forgive me if I explained myself, which I wanted to. You think it is still possible to be friends, which I want. But how am I supposed to achieve all of these, if all you say is “i do not want to talk”? 


You sent an ambulance to save my life, because you do not want me to die. The outcomes of me dying included you losing a very close friend whom you care for dearly. Yet the current outcome of our situation right now is that you no longer have a very close friend whom you care for dearly, because you are cutting contact. You were worried that I was attempting suicide, because you were leaving me, so when I got out of IMH, you were still leaving me, which if your worries were true, wouldn’t that mean I will attempt suicide again? I really do not understand the logic of this scenario. I don’t understand


In this entire scenario, you’ve felt hurt thrice.The first time was 20th, when you told me you wanted to break up. I got angry, and said things I didn’t mean. The second time, BEFORE you texted me at IMH, which I still do not understand. And the third time, when I did not thank you for saving my life, and for saying that you broke my heart. 


The first time, I am really, truly sorry. I completely take responsibility for that. The second time, I really really really really do not understand, and if you can please explain that, I will listen, and try to understand. If it is because your POV is “Jovian attempted suicide and blamed me for it”, I never attempted suicide, nor did I blame you, nor did you give me a chance to explain my POV. And the third time, you did not give me a chance to talk. You did not give me a chance to express my gratitude, nor explain myself, even though you now claim you wanted me to explain myself back then.


After I lost access to my phone in IMH, you talk to my mum. And you sent a message meant for me, saying that you need time to heal, you called me Ketsu, and implied that you still saw a future for us. This is after the overdose, after IMH. All I have done since then was to leave you alone. I asked my mom to forward a single message to you, and that is all my influence over any conversation my mom had with you.


When I got my phone back after IMH, I noticed that you hadn’t blocked me on Telegram. But I didn’t message you. You said you needed time away, and I understood. I tried to give you time away. The only times before today when I tried to contact you directly was when I asked my mom to forward a message to you a few days after discharge, the 7th of May, when you were supposed to come back to Singapore, and today, fifteeth of May. 


You said you needed time away, and I tried my best to give you that. I have only tried to contact you, both indirectly and directly, three times. You mentioned that my mom kept pestering you, but please know, I am not my mom, nor do I know when she will message you, or what she will message you about. In March, I broke down on the fifteeth infront of my parents for the very first time. And my mom panickedly messaged you. And the next morning, I wake up to a wall of text from Anastasia calling me cruel and unthoughtful. And even then I tried to deescalate things and explain myself. Only after I spiraled harder that night was when I spammed Anastasia, and she understandably blocked me. The next 2 months my mental state slowly deteriorated, and I talked to my parents, and sometimes I can’t keep back my tears, and I just randomly break down in front of them. But I never wanted them to disturb you. My dad wanted to fly to Scotland, to confront you, and I begged him not to do anything. My mom kept praying, and she doesn’t know what to do. I don’t know what to do. All I know is that I love you, and I do not want to hurt and disturb you. Before today, I didn’t contact you whilst breaking down, despite how badly I wanted to. You said you wanted time, and I tried my best to give it to you. I really did. I tried to contact you thrice, which is not zero, but I really really tried.


Lastly, my mom called you irresponsible. That is her word, not mine. It is a strong word, and I dislike that she called you that. But you also mentioned that you are not obliged to talk to me, and that you are not running away. This I disagree with. Earlier I brought up the high risk high reward. You brought up your own point A. And you now realise the damaging consequences. But you did not deal with the consequences. You do have the right to put yourself first, and heal in your own time, but you do not have the right to abandon your other responsibilities while doing so. Yes, it hurts you to think and talk about me. But have you ever wondered how much pain I am going through, with all this uncertainty and lack of communication? Would it have been possible for you to sacrifice some of your pain, in order to ease a whole lot of burden of mine? 


When we agreed to continue, we were agreeing on a partnership. We were partners, we were supposed to work on everything together. So yes, you are supposed to deal with the consequences, and take any blame that you deserve. I deserve a lot of the blame, but you have made multiple mistakes too. And the best way to deal with the consequences was to talk things out, understand each other’s explanations and POV, validate the hurt that we have caused each other, all of which I have attempted to and was always open to, while you never were. You are obliged to deal with the consequences, and you did not.


The only words I got directly from you since warded at IMH, were your message forwarded through my mom, calling me ketsu and saying you need time, and today. The rest of the past painful, hellish three months, I have heard nothing from you, no scolding, no apologizing, no attempt of dealing with the consequences. You had Anastasia call me cruel and unthoughtful, but I don’t even know if those are your words. Even now, you say you are trying to heal, but you do not want to have me in your life, or even talk about it. Even now, you do not want to talk. Is this not you running away?


I have felt a lot of emotions the past three months, and have been slowly working through them with my psychologist. Anger and betrayal are some of them. I am angry that you are seemingly dodging your responsibility to me, as a partner, as a girlfriend to properly break up with me. That you are not dealing with the consequences and refusing to have a dialogue with me. That you are either not realising that your actions (or rather, inaction) have consequences, or you are simply not dealing with those consequences. But the strongest emotion I feel other than hurt, is love. And I hope that one day you will fully process this, and everything related to this. And if then, if you want, I will still be here, caring and waiting for you.


The friendship, promises, and abandonment


I let you into my heart, and you made room. And then you left, and my heart has this huge gaping hole left in it. I miss you dearly, and it hurts everyday to know that you are no longer with me. I lost my best friend, and it feels like death. I am grieving everyday, and I can’t imagine a greater pain.


Earlier this year, you accused me of not loving you enough, because I would delete our entire friendship if you went drinking alone or with only one friend. You said you would never delete our entire friendship. You said you would give me a chance, you will scold me, but not delete.


You promised me that no matter what, our baseline would be friends. That we would always talk things out. And everytime I tried to invoke that promise, you broke it, and refused to talk. You know me the best, promises mean everything to me. And you broke that promise. Even before we dated, I told you about Vee, and how she broke her promises, and how much it hurt me. And you said that you want to be different, that you do not want to be the same as Vee. At East Coast Park, I asked you to take on the responsibility of being my favourite person. You accepted. And then you dropped the responsibility. On top of the Flyer, we promised. We promised that no matter what, we will be friends. I still want to hold on to that promise. 


You know that I am medically diagnosed with depression, anxiety, and borderline personality disorder. Everytime I would wait for you to reply to something, I feel extremely anxious. It is one of the worst feelings in the world, and I would feel like I am having a panic attack. This is a symptom of my anxiety. I am medically anxious. So in the past, when I brought up the word “torturous”, I was not kidding. It literally hurts to wait, but I was willing and still am willing to wait anyway.


I also have borderline personality disorder. You have read up on this. I told you about this. You told me your greatest fear before, which was disappointing others. I told you mine in return, abandonment. I have been abandoned many times. My best friend choosing my other friend over me, my Ahpeh choosing my classmate over me, classmates not asking me to hang out, getting ostracized in JC, NS mates not engaging with me, Ling Yin literally running away from me, Vee not picking up my call the night I wanted to die. 


And you, turning off your phone, after I called you twice. If it rang, and you didn’t pick up, at least I could tell myself you are just busy, and couldn’t deal with me at the moment. But you willfully turned your phone off after my first two calls. You told me, if I ever needed to talk to you, I can say that it is urgent, and you will drop everything and talk to me. Check our Telegram logs, you said it before. You said that I am important to you, more so than Anastasia even. You said that you care about me. So why did you turn off your phone? That was the moment when I completely spiraled. I was spiraling before, but mentally sound enough to not hurt myself. But when you consciously, actively, made the choice to turn off your phone, to ignore and abandon me, I just spiraled completely. When you eventually realised I overdosed, you told your mom that you were busy and didn’t notice I was trying to contact you. But you did notice. The message 12 hours ago went through. The message an hour before went through. The first two calls went through, and then you willfully, noticeably, turned your phone off. And after you turn your phone back on, you didn’t even call, to see if I am alive and able to return your call. You just messaged my mom, and called the police. You didn’t even acknowledge that you ignored my calls, and missed my messages.


If you broke up with me normally. If you deleted our entire friendship after saying good bye. If I overdosed, you stuck by me through it, then told me you wanted to break up after. If you explained everything, instead of making decisions and assumptions on your own. If you did anything other than literally the one thing not to do, I feel as though things wouldn’t be so bad. Of course you breaking up with me will hurt, but not this much. Of course losing my best friend would hurt, but not this much. The only thing that can hurt this much, was this specific combination of things that happened, with most vital of all, you abandoning me. That is my greatest fear, my biggest trigger, the most hurtful thing anyone can do to me, and you did it. You abandoned me. You turned off your phone after I called you, and you refused to let me explain, you refused to talk, and cut off contact since IMH. You willfully, consciously abandoned me.


I plan to die within the next 12 months. I wasn’t suicidal in February. I wasn’t suicidal while in IMH, nor after getting discharged. I held on as long as I could, but since a month ago, I have decided to die. I have lost all hope, all meaning in life, any resemblance of my personality. My mental health has deteriorated so badly, and I cannot even do the things I once enjoyed doing. I do not think I can focus on school, as I am no longer passionate in programming. I feel as though my life is a burden, and meaningless. I am not blaming you for this. This decision I have made completely on my own, on my good days, where I can properly process all the emotions I feel, as well as after considering my past. Again, it is not your fault. I am medically depressed. It is my brain’s fault, not yours.I promised you a year and a half. That is one of the last promises I will keep towards you.


I am sorry for how much you have had to deal with. I do not know about Rachel, but I have always been completely genuine towards you. I do not do things for the sake of attention, I overthink everything, and I make decisions very carefully. I truly am trying my best to battle my demons, to work on myself, to one day not want to die. I really do not want to. I said it outloud to my psychologist, and she sees that in me too. It is just being drowned out by everything else. 


I am glad you are finally seeing a counselor. I hope you will be able to work through everything that has happened in your life too. I put aside my own mental health for many people before, most recently being patient and caring and loving you before myself, and you shouldn’t either. I hope you heal, and will one day be able to fully process and learn from this very painful situation. 


After all that is said and done, I truly truly love you. If I don’t, I would’ve done something drastic the day I left IMH. I do not wish for things to end this way. I want to believe that when you called the ambulance, you wanted to save my life because you care, not because you wanted to feel guilty. I love you so much, and I want to have faith in you. I hope that you are still the same person I fell in love with, and that you will understand all that I have gone through. I know you willfully abandoned me, but I want to believe that you did so out of instinct to save yourself, not because you wanted to hurt me. I want to believe you are the caring, trustworthy, strong Jia Yi that I fell in love with.


Even if you changed, I want you to know that I care and love you so very much. If you are no longer the same Jia Yi, I guess this is goodbye forever. You really did make me happy, and I am thankful for that. I hope you find someone that you deserve, and deserves you. To the Jia Yi that I know from 15th July 2021, I love you so so much. I do not regret what I said that day. If you are still the same Jia Yi, I know that you will one day realise the consequences of your (in)actions, take responsibility, and also forgive me for my part to play in all the hurt everything has caused you. If you are the same Jia Yi, I am sorry for hurting you. If you are the same Tsuki, your sheep dog will always, always be here for you, waiting for you. To my beloved Tsuki, you know where to find me, you know how to reach me. I love you so much.